Mid term summary

Looking back at my time here at Allstate, its hard to believe that I have been here almost 6 months…time really does fly when your having fun and I can honestly say that I have thoroughly enjoyed my time here and hope the second half is as good as the first. I commenced my placement back in June with very limited knowledge in CSS, HTML and Javascript thinking that my skills in the languages were actually very good….how wrong I was. Coming into a professional working environment opened up my eyes to how little I actually knew and how far behind I was with the industry standard technologies as University only introduces us to HTML, CSS and Javascript at a very basic level and only touches the surface of what is used in the industry meaning the content that is taught is sadly out of date.  
The first couple of weeks was filled with confusion and the unknown as to what project I will be starting on and who I will be working with but I was soon informed that I would be working alongside Mark on ARS and will be for the foreseeable future. ARS also known as Allstate Roadside Service is an application that offers Allstate customers roadside service from their phone or computer. The development is quite unique in that it is a website utilising the PWA (Progressive Web App) technology. This means that the website can be added to a users home screen on their phone and display and act like an app which is really useful for people who have broke down at the side of the road. I had never heard of or come across this PWA technology before and was quite surprised by the capabilities of it as it can utilise service workers to cache the users data etc which is crucial for the application that we are making. ARS made use of the ReactJS library along with SASS which I had never even heard of meaning I spent the first few weeks self learning using online tutorials and courses. React (also known as React.js orReactJS) is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It is maintained by Facebook and a community of individual developers and companies and can be used as a base in the development of single-page or mobile applications. Once I felt I was up to scratch I moved onto the ARS where I would start making some interfaces for the project.

As React would be a large part of my time here at Allstate, I made it my goal to be fluent in the language by the time I left next June. I think this is a realistic goal but challenging as it also takes into consideration vanilla Javascript that Im not as confident with and therefore would need to brush up my skills in that area before I can move on. 
STATE
PROPS

As I have mentioned before, SASS is a language that I had never touched on before and was excited to get stuck into as I know that many of the websites these days will utilise this technology and I can safely say that having used SASS I will not be returning to normal CSS as it makes life too much easier when it comes to styling your interfaces. SASS (Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets ) is the most mature, stable, and powerful professional grade CSS extension language in the world and is completely compatible with all versions of CSS. In short, Sass is a CSS preprocessor, which adds special features such as variables, nested rules and mixins into regular CSS. The aim is to make the coding process simpler and more efficient. A good example to show how it makes things easier is variables. If your websites uses a colour throughout, meaning that you have used the hex code maybe on multiple elements on multiple pages. Just like other programming languages, Sass allows the use of variables that can store information you can use throughout your style sheet. For example, you can store a colour value in a variable at the top of the file, and then use this variable when setting the colour of your elements. This enables you to quickly change your colours without having to modify each line separately. Simple!. The only downside that I can see is that the user has to have Ruby installed on their machine for it to work meaning that when I return to University I may not be able to use it on the machines there, meaning it may be back to good old vanilla CSS.

In addition, I have also been introduced to Git and Github site starting here which has also changed the game when it comes to working in a team and just development overall. Git is by far, the most widely used modern version control system in the world today. Developed in 2005 by Linus Torvalds (The creator of the Linux Kernal), Git is a mature, actively maintained open source project allowing users to track their files and coordinate work on those files among multiple people. If I knew about this platform in Uni I would 100% of used It within my team projects as it makes life much more simple and makes conflicts of code less likely. 

Within on of my modules in university it required us to part take in a weekly stand up were we would simply update the team with what we were working on that we and what we plan to work on in the fourth coming week. The massive growth of agile software development practices, means that stand-up meetings are becoming more popular within businesses of all industries and sizes. Just as the title suggests, a stand-up meeting is literally a quick meeting within a team who stands up for the duration. These stand-up meetings are meant to promote follow-up conversations between members of the team. For example, if an employee brings up an issue they are having, another colleague is encouraged to speak up and say they can help later that day. However, If I’m truthful I always hated the thought of having to take part in that stand up as I never really felt it was beneficial within a mall team that you seen on a daily basis and you knew exactly what they had been working on. However, I soon realised that this was not that case within a large team. As most of my colleges were situated in America and India I wasn’t able to see first hand what they have been working on and therefore the daily stand ups were a necessity in order to update everybody. For example, if a back end developer had noticed an issue with the frontend he would bring it up in the stars up and discuss how it could be resolved meaning we knew exactly were the issue lay and we could go in immediately and resolve the issue quickly and effectively. 


GIT
STAND UPS
SPRINT PLANNING